---
title: 'Daily Log: 30 December 2020'
date: 2012-08-14
permalink: /posts/YYYY/MM/post-title/
tags:
  - Daily Log
  - Running Log
---

# Running log

I'm currently on the upswing from what my physical therapist thinks is either shin splints or posterior tibial strain on the inside of my left ankle/calf. I recently took about 2 weeks off from running and feeling so much better in general. The goal is to start *slowly* increasing mileage again to get back to training! Since we are going into the long, dark, cold winter, I am treating this as a base-building period and will try the principles of low heart rate training described [here](https://www.runtothefinish.com/how-to-low-heart-rate-training/). This approach really fits in with my goals of running farther with less overall effort. If I get faster too, I would definitely not complain.

The details
- goal: 2 miles keeping my heart rate below the threshold of 155
- warm up: dynamic warm-up described [here](https://www.runtothefinish.com/low-heart-rate-training-plans/) with about 0.6 miles walking warm up
- equipment notes: put my Yankz laces in my road shoes and the heel slipping was fixed. I can feel a gap between my inserts and the side of my shoe, but it didn't bother me once I got going. Felt plenty warm in long sleeves, gloves, and Canopy jacket. No headphones.
- injury notes: shin is overall feeling really good. It was a bit stiff at the beginning of the run, but forgot about it. No pain after the run or the next day.
- workout notes: this was the first time using the heart rate threshold, so trying to go into it with an open mind. Definitely did a lot of walking, especially since I chose an uphill route! It's a bit frustrating, but I know if I stick with it there will be big improvements. This pace definitely felt like an easy effort (2/10) and I wasn't super sweaty or tired at the end of it. Excited to see how this feels after a long run.

# Thoughts from today

Taking a work break this week has been really nice mentally, but hard to keep a consistent schedule. My sleep schedule is slowly slipping as I have been staying up later and sleeping in later. One of the things causing this is some feelings of melancholy in the evenings. Even if I am tired, I am having a hard time breaking from mindless scrolling and putting myself to bed. Tonight, I wanted to finish my audiobook and it was also more emotional than I anticipated. Tomorrow is also NYE and I am feeling some of the pressure to celebrate or recognize some sort of difference in the new year. Since it is just going to be me and the roommates this year, I hope it will be a bit more relaxing!

As a compromise from doing work this week, I am attempting to keep a schedule by making myself a to-do list every day. That has been nice so that my days are not completely aimless. It is still satisfying to check things off, even if it is just "take a shower".
