---
title: 'Daily Log: 22 January 2021'
date: 2021-01-21
published: false
permalink: /posts/2021/01/daily-22/
tags:
  - Daily Log
  - Running Log
---

# Running log
- goal: 6 miles easy
- warm up: dynamic warm up and 0.5 miles brisk walking
- equipment notes: really good temperature today, long sleeves under smartwool jacket. Gloves and ear cover stayed on the whole time but didn't feel too warm!
- injury notes: a bit of stiffness at the beginning of the run, but that was forgotten within the first mile. No pain walking around post run, and am wearing compression socks
- workout notes: hips are feeling a bit sore afterwards, hopefully that means I'm engaging them more instead of relying on lower legs! Overall I am loving finishing these long runs at low heart rate. While I definitely sweat, I don't feel tired or out of breath at the end.

# Thoughts from today
Another day full of meetings that went long :( First meeting of the day was exec team for the department student group, and I am looking forward to the plans we have for the semester! Second meeting was instructional group for my TA, I think we are figuring out a distribution of work for assignments which will give me a the structure and guidance I need. Then on to the ICS colloquium which went longer than expected. Late lunch, then trying to fit in a bit of my own work before class. Starting to feel sad and anxious towards the end of the day, so I think I'll take that as a sign to log off early and maybe put in a small amount of work tomorrow if I feel up to it.