---
title: 'Daily Log: 03 January 2021'
date: 2021-01-03
permalink: /posts/2021/01/daily-03/
tags:
  - Daily Log
  - Running Log
---

# Running log

Second run doing low heart rate training today. Since I am slowly increasing my mileage, I went out for 2 miles. My roommate had a long run today and graciously let me tag along to the trail so I had some time to burn.

The details
- goal: 2 miles keeping my heart rate below the threshold of 155
- warm up: dynamic warm-up described [here](https://www.runtothefinish.com/low-heart-rate-training-plans/) with about 0.5 miles walking warm up
- equipment notes: no shoe complaints today except a bit of snow and dirt found their way into my socks. Around 45 degrees today so wore capris with short sleeves and canopy jacket. Took out new vest with water bladder and post-run snacks and no complaints there! Also brought headphones for my audiobook.
- injury notes: no pain during the run today or immediately afterward. A little stiff in the evening after not moving for a while.
- workout notes: felt like I took fewer walking breaks today, but had an overall slightly slower pace than last time. I'm getting an idea of what level of effort corresponds to the heart rate threshold so hopefully I can better regulate my pace without going over in the future.

# Thoughts from today

I have still been keeping up with my daily to-do lists, which helps me feel like I haven't wasted a whole day doing nothing. After thinking on my January goals for a few days, I decided they are too ambitious and will not be sustainable for the whole year. I will revise them tonight and choose a single action item for each area of improvement to focus on over the whole month. Simplicity! I would rather be sustainable and attempt fewer things than burn out early. 

Finished a book today! It definitely lit a bit of a fire to re-focus how I am spending my work day. Time to slowly start implementing these ideas.
