---
title: 'Daily Log: 15 January 2021'
date: 2021-01-15
permalink: /posts/2021/01/daily-15/
tags:
  - Daily Log
  - Running Log
---

# Running log
- goal: 3 miles easy
- warm up: dynamic warm up and 0.5 miles brisk walking. Felt good to do at the trail head since I wasn't so cold!
- equipment notes: fingers were cold initially but warmed up quickly. May consider getting mittens instead of gloves. Core temp was good and glad I brought an extra vest to wear on the way home
- injury notes: ankle was a little stiff in the morning and even a bit on the run. Actually feeling much better after doing post-run strength training!
- workout notes: uphill on the trail was pretty brutal on the heart rate, and also struggled with footing on lots of loose rocks. Downhill was great because I could go longer without having to walk to bring my heart rate down!

# Thoughts from today
First day of the class I'm TAing for, I'm really looking forward to it! I am going to have some flexibility to spend time on what I want, so will try do some tutorials based on student interest.

I also sat down with my roommate and did a goal planning session for the semester, which was super helpful. Here's what I came up with:
- Personal goal: develop morning and evening routines using habits to transition to work-mode
	- these routines include wake-up times, go-to-sleep times, and themes for each routine (e.g., workouts happen in the morning, hobbies in the evening)
	- need to experiment with the amount of sleep I need, peak productivity hours to try be at my desk, and developing a menu of options to do in each routine
	- the purpose of this goal is to feel more in control of my time and have a clear distinction between work and personal business
- Productivity goal: set clear boundaries for time blocks
	- need to devote specific times to checking email, since that is a never-ending task. Separate emails from their related tasks, which can be done during a work block.
	- limit time for extracurriculars, or make time to do these on the weekends. I am getting paid to do research and teach, so tasks like student government and other service need to take up less time.
	- schedule at least one block of me-time every day during business hours. No one can schedule a meeting during that time, this is for doing work that directly relates to my research goals.
	- experiment with finding peak productivity hours and adjusting daily routines to facilitate doing work during these times.
- Research goals: figure out wtf you are going to do
	- step one is find a new advisor. This involves meeting with people to see what projects are happening and making a rough research plan.
	- step two is to make a plan to complete my area exam. The plan needs to be done by the end of the semester. Ideally, the area exam would be done by the end of the summer.