---
title: 'Daily Log: 05 January 2021'
date: 2021-01-05
permalink: /posts/2021/01/daily-05/
tags:
  - Daily Log
  - Running Log
---

# Running log
The goal this week is to increase to 3 runs, each 2 miles long. Today was my first run this week, with one day of rest since my last run.
- goal: 2 miles below heart rate threshold of 155
- warm up: dynamic warm up, 0.5 miles of walking
- equipment notes: weird weather today, cold in the shade but warm in the sun. Ended up taking off and putting on my jacket during the run.
- injury notes: a bit sore at the start of the run but wasn't distracting. The shin area is a bit tender after the run, so will make an effort to do a good stretch and foam rolling tonight.
- workout notes: ended up walking quite a bit to stay under the heart rate threshold today, which is frustrating. Also felt a bit dehydrated, probably just due to winter. Trying to keep expectations reasonable because this is just the beginning!

# Thoughts from today

Tried to spend less time at my desk today, but make that time more productive. I definitely got some momentum going this morning, which was really encouraging. Had a mid-day break to run some errands and decided not to push it more and burn myself out this afternoon. During my work time, I used "current task" board to do pomodoros, even if it isn't deep work. I didn't look at it often, but it was easy to glance at if I felt tempted to be distracted.

Blocks today:
- catch up on personal and work emails
- schedule meetings, start brainstorming faculty to contact
- continue brainstorming faculty
- continue brainstorming faculty
- productive meditation during run to brainstorm responses to application questions