---
title: 'Daily Log: 19 January 2021'
date: 2021-01-19
permalink: /posts/2021/01/daily-19/
tags:
  - Daily Log
  - Running Log
---

# Running log
- goal: 1.5 miles easy, 5 x (2 min 10:50 or faster + 1 min recovery), 1 mile easy
- warm up: dynamic warm up, couple minutes of brisk walking
- equipment notes: might have been a bit over-dressed for 27 degrees (vest and smartwool jacket) but I wasn't super hot by the end. 
- injury notes: ankle was definitely a bit painful during the high intensity efforts. I will consider giving it a second rest day before going on the next long run. I will see how it feels after sleeping.
- workout notes: more progress today since I could go over a mile before having to walk! It is still unbearably slow, but I am excited about this new consistency. The 2 minute efforts were definitely a hard workout by the end, but nice to get moving faster.

# Thoughts from today
Where did the time go today? First meeting of my quantitative methods class today, and it is already worth its weight in gold. We discussed data cleaning and analysis workflow today as well as the benefits of keeping a consistent file structure. I will probably end up writing more about this later. I am already able to start implementing these with my new research project! That was a long class this morning, and then more meetings. I did more reading for TA and brainstormed some quiz questions. I hope they will be engaging without sounding childish. I also submitted a homework assignment early and checked a few things off my email to-do list that have been hanging over my head for a while. I had some background anxiety since I hadn't looked at my to-do list for a while, but I realized I had checked a few things off of it without realizing. I need to add this to my daily wind-down sequence so I can wake up and know I have a plan for the day. Looking forward to getting out on my bike tomorrow morning!