---
title: 'Daily Log: 06 January 2021'
date: 2021-01-06
published: false
permalink: /posts/2021/01/daily-06/
tags:
  - Daily Log
---

# Thoughts from today

Haven't even opened my to-do list today, but I feel like I have done some important tasks. Took this morning off for administrative stuff and half-heartedly watched a webinar from the college about teaching online in the Spring semester. I enjoyed the nice weather with a long walk right before lunch and also went to the grocery store before it got too busy. I started a new application for a summer internship today, which I am excited for. It's hard to compare yourself with others and feel like you aren't interesting enough to get a job, but I'm trying to just apply anyways!

I've been feeling paralyzed lately by the number of decisions to make. I feel like I have so many goals, but I don't want to burn out trying to implement them all at once. But how can I leave some behind?? To help with this, I decided to try reduce the number of decisions I need to make to leave some brain power for the important stuff. First up, meal planning is about to get super boring. I am happy eating the same things all week, so I'm really simplifying it down to reduce cooking time and agonizing over making a grocery list. Next step, I need to go through my list of research, teaching, and service commitments and set a time limit for each week. This will allow me to put together weekly to-do lists and time on my calendar so I am not constantly distracted by meetings and one-off tasks.

Fun programmer moment today: I just downloaded my data from a retired running app, but it wouldn't sync with my cloud storage because there were illegal characters in the file names. Using python, I was able to replace all of the characters so that the files can sync. Who would have thought I could rename 900 files in 5 minutes! I feel powerful.