---
title: 'Daily Log: 17 January 2021'
date: 2021-01-17
permalink: /posts/2021/01/daily-17/
tags:
  - Daily Log
  - Running Log
---

# Running log
- goal: 5 miles easy
- warm up: dynamic warm up and about 10 minutes of brisk walking while I fiddled with my watch
- equipment notes: long sleeves under canopy jacket was good, but fingers got cold when I was walking. Should have brought a hat or sunglasses!
- injury notes: ankle a little stiff this morning, and felt a little bit of pain when running. Tried to focus on being relaxed throughout the run. Haven't noticed pain after the run except some tenderness when foam rolling.
- workout notes: some promising progress today! Ran about the first 0.75 miles before my heart rate crept up too much. The second mile was a bit rough of stop and start, but did get some good prolonged periods of running today. This is my longest run in a while, and I do not feel tired after it at all. Yay for staying motivated!

# Thoughts from today
While I did wake up at my usual time, I wasn't in a hurry to do anything this morning so I snoozed for a half hour. Instead of letting my to-do list fester like it did yesterday, I spent a little time doing student government work while waiting for my roommate to wake up for our run. It definitely took pressure off of the rest of the day! Then went on a long run with my roommate and finished an audio book. Rest of the day was spent on the couch halfway watching football and setting up my new phone. In the evening, sat down with my roommate and did our review for the week to see how we can put our goals on the calendar. I scheduled two 30-minute blocks for checking email every day and one 30-minute personal block every day. I would like to do more work than this, but this is a sustainable starting point. 